This GitHub repository contains a code to process tweets that mention "Marielle Franco" 
 THe tweets were collected Using the Academic Research Track of the Twitter API, released in 2021 (https://developer.twitter.com/en/use-cases/do-research/academic-research). We collected tweets that include the phrase “Marielle Franco” from the entire Twitter archive using Twarc, a Python package for collecting Twitter data, developed by Documenting the Now (https://github.com/DocNow/twarc). We collected tweets mentioning Marielle Franco in Spanish, English and Portuguese between March 14, 2018, the day of her assassination and March 19, 2023, 5 days after the 5th anniversary of her death. In Spanish, the collection resulted in a total of 301.786. In Portuguese, a total of 2,092,873 tweets. And in English, a total of 181710 tweets. For data processing, we used a combination of qualitative and quantitative research methods implemented in Wolfram Mathematica and Python in Jupiter Notebooks. 
This repository includes code in Wolfram Mathematica to process data in order to generate tables that illustrate the chronological distribution of tweets referencing Marielle Franco in Spanish, Portuguese, and English; the development of a function to identify and measure the prevalence of # (hashtags); the development of a function that measured the use of "@" to identify the most frequently referenced accounts within the corpus of tweets. 
It also includes code to deploy several pre-processing techniques: 1) tokenization of words according to terms that are important for our corpus; 2) stripping the corpus of links, usernames and other non-word characters using the function Regular Expression; 3) elimination of a list of stopwords in Portuguese, English and Spanish; 4) Implementation of a lemmatizing technique, after which we grouped terms according to the most frequent with the same stem.  
Finally, the performance of a technique for topic modelling on tweets in Portuguese, Spanish and English during 2020.
This repository was created in collaboration with Ed Summers (Stanford University) and Bruno Deusdará (UERJ). 
